IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRI CT C 
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORG A 
ATLANTA DIVISION 
JACQUELINE R. EVERSON , ) 
) 
Plaintiff, ) 
) 
vs. ) 
T f\l E.O IN ClEkt'\ S OFFICE - u.s.o.c .. Atlanta 
AUG t 1 207.3 
) 
) 
Case No. 1:23-CV-02947 UL,(3 
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, ) 
) 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE ) 
COMPANY, ) 
) 
Defendant. ) 
PLAINTIFF'S MEMORANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT OF ITS 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Pursuan t to Rules 12( c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Plaintiff, 
Jacqueline Everson ("Plaintiff') submits this Motion for Summary Judgme nt and 
Memorandum of Law in support of fotion for Summary Judgment against 
Defendants ("Defs"); The Coca-Cola Company's ("Coca-Cola") and Answers 
Liberty Mutu al Insurance Company 's ("Liberty Mutual") Motion to Dismiss 
Plaintiffs Complaint for six reasons: 1) Plaintiff's federal law and state law 
causes of action in the Complaint is not for the "one and only " LTD benefit 
policy provided by Liberty Mutual. This is a claim for ongoing discrimination of 
Plaintiffs civil rights solely on the basis of Plaintiffs disability under the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, 1990 (''ADA") and is not preempted by 
BRISA. Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC (Exhibit A); 2) Liberty 
Mutual Insurance Company is the proper defendant in this action as 
administrator for "The Coca..Cola Company" to evaluate, manage and decide all 
employee (long -term) disability status; "disabled" or "not disabled" using 
Social Security as the standard; (Exhibit D); 3) Plaintiff's Complaint against 
Defendants is a recognizable cause of action in multiple discrimination 
violations under ADA; U.S.C. § 12111 Subchapter I - EMPLOYMENT, 42 
U.S. Code § 12112 - Discrimination. The Second Circuit held that disabled 
former employees have an ADA cause of action for benefits discrimination, 
provided the former employee was a "qualified individual" during the term of 
his employment; 4) Plaintiff's claims in the Complaint against Liberty Mutual 
do not pertain to a claim for a "single" LID benefit from the only Policy issued 
by Liberty Mutual under ERISA; a policy issued for "one" LTD benefit. Instead, 
Plaintiffs claims are for ongoing discrimination on the basis of her disability; 
violations of Plaintiff's civil rights under ADA. Therefore, Plaintiff's claims for 
discrimination violations, is not barred by the doctrines of res judicata and/or 
collateral estoppel; 5) Plaintiff's claims in the Complaint were brought within 
the applicable statue of limitations. Accordingly, Plaintiff has a right to sue 
letter from the EEOC for acts of discrimination under ADA (Exhibit A); and 
thus, Plaintiffs claims are sufficient to support the relief requested by the 
Plaintiff. 6) Coca-Cola's Answer to Plaintiff's Complaint is in default for 
failure to answer within 30 days as required by Georgia law. The Coca-Cola 
Company continues to operate with disrespect for the law and Plaintiffs 
disability. Plaintiff is asking the Court to Dismiss The Coca--Cola Company's 
Motion to Dismiss and Memorandum of Law in Support of Defendant Coca­
Cola's tvlotion to Dismiss, with prejudice. 
INTRODUCTI ON 
Plaintiff Jacqueline Everson brings this case against Coca-Cola and 
Liberty Mutual for acts of ongoing discrimination and multiple violations under 
the Americans with Disabilities Act, 1990 ("'ADA' ). Plaintiff is not retrying her 
ERISA claim which was for "one" disability benefit th.ru a policy issued by 
Liberty Mutual; an ERJSA case in which Coca-Cola was not a defendant (LM 
Motion 1 Exhibit D). Coca-Cola relied on Liberty Mutual to determine 
Plaintiff's disability status thru a medical evaluation, Liberty Mutual' s 1 st 
evaluation on Plaintiff is claim note 19: Quote "follow-up on Social Security" 
"not a good candidate for assisting with return to wor~' (Exhibit E). Liberty 
Mutual' s disability policy states the standard used to determine disability status, 
Quote: "Your policy requires that you apply for Social Security Disability 
Benefits" "Our records indicate you have applied (Exhibit D ,r Page 2). Liberty 
Mutual had Plaintiff's Social Security approval letter within their possession 
prior to trial; in the pretrial documents filed by Liberty Mutual in the ERISA 
case (Exhibit C). Coca;Cola and Liberty Mutual violated the ADA laws by 
discriminating against Plaintiffs Social Security decision; by not accepting it 
(Exhibit B). Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual discriminated against their own 
doctor, plaintiff's treating doctor and Plaintiffs permanent disabled Social 
Security decision. Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual are hiding the fact that Social 
Security is their Policy requirement and is hiding this fact to discriminate 
against Plaintiff on the basis of her disability, to deny Plaintiff all privileges of 
employment which is ongoing to this very day, in violation of ADA laws. 
Coca--Cola &id Liberty Mutual did not mention Plaintiffs "Social 
Security Administration decision'' not one time and that Social Security found 
Plaintiff is permanently disabled since her last day at work. Plaintiff asks the 
Court and Coca-Cola to forgive her error in stating that Plaintiff is classified 
"totally disabled" as a requirement to receive Early Retirement Pension. Coca­
Cola also erroneously stated an error in the Background section of its Motion to 
Dismiss; Quote "In 2003, Plaintiff was diagnosed with a back condition" 
(Plaintiff has never had a back condition). Coca-Cola had a copy of Plaintiffs 
MRI of her cervical spine (neck) since 2003, also used by Liberty Mutual to 
classify Plaintiff as "totally disabled from working'' (Exhibit E). Plaintiff 
recently discovered a Coca~Cola policy on "Social Security Benefits" Quote: 
"As long as you may be eligible for Social Security benefits, the claim 
administrator will estimate your Social Security income and deduct that amount 
from your LTD benefits until all appeal procedures have been exhau sted." 
(Exhibit P 1 page 5). Plaintiff recently contacted Coca-Cola concerning ongoing 
discrimination and Plaintiff referenced the Coca .. Cola Policy on Social Security 
and did not get an answer [Coca---Cola Case Number = HLP-2023-71237] 
(Exhibit K). Coca..Cola did not wait for Plaintiff's Social Security decision as 
stated in their Policy and when Plaintiff was fully approved Coca-Cola would 
not accept it and terminated Plaintiff from all privileges of employment and 
violated their own Social Security Policy, in violation of ADA laws. Liberty 
Mutual also had Plaintiff's Social Security decision and would not acknowledge 
it and violat d its own Social Security Policy discriminating against Plaintiff on 
the basis of her disability in violation of ADA. Plaintiff is proper in bringing 
this claim and is not time barred from ongoing ADA discrimination. Plaintiff 
has an EEOC right to sue letter for charges of discrimination and violations 
under ADA (Exhibit A). March 17, 2005, The Coca-Cola Benefit manager 
email confirms working with Liberty Mutual to (bury) put an end to Plaintiffs 
"totally disabled" classification working with Liberty Mutual' s help: 
Quote: "Subject RE: J. Everson" "I am talking with Liberty Mutual to get 
updated communications on this one (and Flowers)" "FYI, I am going to work 
with them" "to make sure no other similar cases sneak out like these two have" 
(Exhibit G). Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual would NOT have been able to 
classify Plaintiff "not disabled'' and as a "sneak out case" if they had not 
discriminated against Plaintiff's Social Security Disability decision violating 
their own Social Security Policy requirement in violation of ADA. 
BACKGROUND 
Plaintiff was a Sr. Financial Analyst employed by The Coca&Cola 
Company from 1988 to 2005. Plaintiff was terminated in 2005 after being 
classified "no longer considered disabled" (Exhibit H, I). In 2003, Plaintiff 
became ill and was diagnosed thru an MRI of her cervical spine. Plaintiffs 
2003, MRI records from Liberty Mutual' s file diagnosed Plaintiff with a severe 
cervical spine condition: "myelomalacia (cord disease), C4~5 Right 
posterolateral focal disc herniation exerting a mass effect upon the right and left 
central nerve roots (Exhibit Q). Plaintiffs 2004, EMG test records from Liberty 
Mutual' s file diagnosed Plaintiff with muscle atrophy (loss) and severe nerve 
damage: Bilateral and mid cervical radiculopathies (Exhibit R). Plaintiff's 2004, 
Neurological Exam records from Liberty Mutual's file diagnosis is: 
"Myeloradiculopathy ( spinal cord and spinal nerve root damage) with evidence 
of flattening of the spinal cord" (Exhibit S). 
In 2005, Plaintiff was terminated by Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual after 
a "not disabled' classification by Liberty Mutual (Exhibit H, I). Coca-Cola and 
Liberty Mutual would NOT have been able to classify Plaintiff "not disabled" 
and as a "sneak out case" if they had not discriminated against Plaintiff's Social 
Security Disability decision violating their own Social Security Policy 
requirement and discrinunating against Plaintiff on the basis of her disability in 
violation of ADA . Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual did not mention one time that 
Plaintiff was approved for permanent Social Security disability. Coca-Cola and 
Liberty Mutual did not mention one time that they had a Social Security Policy. 
Defendants are hiding facts that discriminate against Plaintiff on the basis of her 
disability in violation of ADA and other laws. This is fraudulent and unlawful 
employment practices. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(c) a court may grant Summary 
Judgment when a Complaint states a claim upon which relief can be granted. 
Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC for violations under ADA (Exhibit 
A). PlaintifPs Motion for Summary Judgment includes clear factual evidence to 
back up Plaintiff's Complaint and support multiple claims of violations under 
ADA. Plaintiff has sufficient evidence supported by facts to back up all charges 
of discrimination solely on the basis of Plaintiffs disability in violation of ADA. 
Plaintiff has provided clear facts that are consistent with Plaintiffs allegations 
of discrimination on the basis of her disability and relief should be granted 
based on truthful evidence. Summary Judgment is appropriate where "the 
pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, 
together with affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any 
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of 
law." Fed. R. Civ. P. 56 (c). The party seeking summary judgment bears the 
burden of demonstrating the absence of a genuine dispute as to any material 
fact. Herzog v. Castle Rock Entm't, 193 F.3d 1241, 1246 (11th Cir. 1999). Once 
the moving party has met this burden, the non-movant must demonstrate that 
summary judgment is inappropriate by designating specific facts showing a 
genuine issue for trial. Graham v. State Farm Mut. Ins. Co., 193 F.3d 1274, 
1282 (11th Cir. 1999). The non-moving party "need not present evidence in a 
form necessary for admission at trial; however, he may not merely rest on his 
pleadings." Id. The Court must view all evidence in the light most favorable to 
the party opposing the motion and must resolve all reasonable doubts in the 
non-movant's favor. United of Omaha Life Ins. Co. v. Sun Life Ins. Co. of 
Am., 894 F.2d 1555, 1558 (11th Cir. 1990). "[C]redibility determinations, the 
weighing of evidence, and the drawing of inferences from the facts are the 
function of the jury .... " Graham, 193 F.3d at 1282. "If the record presents 
factual issues, the court must not decide them; it must deny the motion and 
proceed to trial." Herzog, 193 F.3d at 1246. But, "[w]here the record taken as a 
whole could not lead a rational trier of fact to find for the non-moving party," 
summary judgment for the moving party is proper. Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co., 
Ltd. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 587, 106 S.Ct. 1348, 89 L.Ed.2d 538 
(1986). 
Plaintiffs Complaint specifically references all Plaintiffs Coca-Cola 
employment records related to her "disability" and ongoing discrimination acts 
against the Plaintiff all on the basis of her disability; Under ADA laws. 
Plaintiffs evidence is attached to this Memorandum in Support of Summary 
Judgment (Exhibits A to S). 
Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual are hiding evidence in this case that 
confirms Plaintiff is permanently disabled by the Social Security 
Administration since her last day at work and to this present day. Coca-Cola 
and Liberty Mutual did not mention Plaintiffs Social Security decision, not 
even one time. Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual continue to maintain that 
Plaintiff is "not disabled". Plaintiff is providing clear evidence of fraud and 
discrimination solely on the basis of Plaintiffs disability under the rules of the 
Social Security Administration (Exhibit B). 
Coca-Cola has no respect for the law and has filed their Answer to 
Plaintiffs Complaint (August 4, 2023) after the 30 day time set by the Rules of 
Civil Procedures without leave. Coca-Cola's Motion to Dismiss is in default. 
Coca-Cola's Motion to Dismiss should be denied, with prejudice under 
O.C.G.A. 9-11-12 (2010). 
ARGUMENT 
Plaintiffs has an EEOC right to sue letter for ADA violations. All Plaintiffs 
claims for discrimination on the basis of her disability are violations of 
Plaintiffs civil rights. Under ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 12111 Prohibits covered 
employers from discriminating against people with disabilities in all 
employment-related activities. 42 U.S.C. § 12112(a) (1994) (prohibiting 
discrimination "against a qualified individual with a disability"); Gonzales v. 
Gamer Food Servs., Inc., 89 F.3d 1523, 1529 (11th Cir. 1996) (stating that 
"interpreting the ADA to allow any disabled former employee to sue a former 
employer essentially renders the [ qualified individual with a disability] 
requirement. Universal Citation: GA Code § 34-6A-4 (2020) Prohibited 
discriminatory activities against persons with disabilities. Plaintiff has a right to 
sue letter from EEOC for ADA discrimination violations (Exhibit A). Therefore, 
Plaintiffs claims for discrimination violations under ADA, is not barred by the 
doctrines of res judicata and/or collateral estoppel. 
I. Plaintiffs ADA Claims of discrimination have not been litigated and 
are not time barred. 
A. Plaintiff's ADA claims are not an attempt to relitigate an ERISA 
claim for one LTD benefit from 2005. 
Plaintiffs claims are for multiple violations under ADA for ongoing 
discrimination against Plaintiff solely on the basis of Plaintiffs disability 
harming her everyday. Plaintiff can name seven adverse employment actions 
against Plaintiffs solely on the basis of her disability. 1. Coca-Cola is 
discriminating against their own policy on Social Security Benefits, by not 
accepting Plaintiffs Social Security results with knowledge of Plaintiffs Social 
Security decision (Exhibit P ,r Page 2); 2. Coca-Cola accepts Social Security 
decisions for other employees but not for the Plaintiff (Exhibit B); 3. Coca­
Cola's Benefit Manager described Plaintiffs claim as a "sneak out" describing 
Plaintiff like a thief. This is a terrible thing to say about a severely disabled 
employee, with severe medical evidence and 17 years of excellent service to 
Coca-Cola (Exhibit G); 4. Coca-Cola continues to maintains to this very day, 
that Plaintiff is "not disabled" with evidence from Social Security causing 
Plaintiff ongoing mental and physical harm (Exhibit B); 5. Coca-Cola threw 
Plaintiff out like trash and did not even give her severance pay with knowledge 
of Plaintiff inability to work after 17 years of excellent service (Exhibit H, I); 
6. Coca-Cola did not make known to this Court that they have a Coca-Cola 
Social Security Benefit Policy. Coca-Cola did not make it known to this Court 
that Plaintiff is permanently disabled by Social Security since her last day at 
work (a qualified individual with a known disability) (Exhibit C); 7. Coca-Cola 
and Liberty Mutual would NOT have been able to classify Plaintiff "not 
disabled" and as a "sneak out case" if they had not discriminated against 
Plaintiffs Social Security Disability decision violating their own Social 
Security Benefit policy in violation of ADA. Coca-Cola tried to hide their 
Social Security requirement from this Court and did not mention it one time; 8. 
Coca-Cola hid Plaintiffs Social Security's decision to continue to use their 
economic power against Plaintiff as a weapon. ADA is not preempted by 
BRISA. Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC for discrimination under 
ADA laws (Exhibit A). 
B. Plaintiff's Title I, ADA claims are not barred by applicable 
statues of limitations. 
The Georgia two year statue of limitation for ADA under Title I claims 
does not apply here. Plaintiff recently discovered a Coca-Cola Social Security 
Benefit Policy that shows Coca-Cola is currently discriminating against the 
Plaintiff on the basis of her disability in violation of ADA laws (Exhibit P 1 
page 5) which prompted Plaintiff to contact Coca-Cola "RE: Ongoing 
discrimination. Coca-Cola opened Plaintiffs case number [Coca-Cola Case 
Number - HLP-2023-71237]" (Exhibit K). Plaintiff has a right to sue letter 
from EEOC for ADA violations on the basis of her disability. Ninth Circuit 
disposition - It held that the continuing violation doctrine "allows courts to 
consider conduct that would ordinarily be time-barred 'as long' as the untimely 
incidents represent an ongoing unlawful employment practice."' Morgan, 232 F. 
3d 108, 1014 (9th Cir. 2000) (quotation omitted). Coca-Cola is still maintaining 
that Plaintiff is "not disabled" with knowledge of Plaintiffs disability in 
violation of ADA to save money (Exhibit D). Plaintiffs Early Retirement 
Pension Plan did not start this civil action. Defendant's ADA violations started 
this civil action. 
C. Plaintiff's ADA claims must not be dismissed. 
Plaintiff has an EEOC right to sue letter to remedy her ADA violations. 
II. Plaintiff's Can Identify A State Law Cause of Action To Be Remedied 
Under ADA. Plaintiff can State Claims Of Discriminatory Actions On Which 
Relief Can Be Granted. 
GA Code § 34-6A-4 (2020) "No employer shall fail or refuse to hire nor 
shall any employer discharge or discriminate against any individual with 
disabilities with respect to wages, rates of pay, hours, or other terms and 
conditions of employment because of such person's disability unless such 
disability restricts that individual's ability to engage in the particular job or 
occupation for which he or she is eligible; nor shall any employer limit, 
segregate, or classify individuals with disabilities in any way which would 
deprive or tend to deprive any individual with disabilities of employment 
opportunities or otherwise affect employee status because of such person's 
disability, unless such disability constitutes a bona fide and necessary reason for 
such limitation, segregation, or classification." Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual 
harmful causes of action: 1. Coca-Cola is discriminating against their own 
policy on Social Security Benefits, by not accepting Plaintiffs Social Security 
results with knowledge of Plaintiffs Social Security decision (Exhibit P ,r Page 
5); 2. Coca-Cola accepts Social Security decisions for other employees but not 
for the Plaintiff (Exhibit B); 3. Coca-Cola's described Plaintiffs claim as a 
"sneak out" describing Plaintiff like a thief. This is a terrible thing to say about 
a severely disabled employee, with severe medical evidence and 17 years of 
excellent service to Coca-Cola (Exhibit G); 4. Coca-Cola continues to maintain 
to this very day, that Plaintiff is "not disabled" with evidence from Social 
Security causing Plaintiff ongoing mental and physical harm GA Code § 34-
6A-4 (2020); 5. Coca-Cola threw Plaintiff out like trash and did not even give 
her severance pay with knowledge of Plaintiff inability to work GA Code § 34-
6A-4 (2020); 6. Coca-Cola did not make it known to this Court that there is a 
Coca-Cola Social Security Benefit Policy (Exhibit P ,r Page 5). Coca-Cola did 
not make it known to this Court that Plaintiff is permanently disabled by Social 
Security since her last day at work ( a qualified individual with a known 
disability) (Exhibit B); 7. Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual would NOT have been 
able to classify Plaintiff "not disabled" and as a "sneak out case" if they had not 
discriminated against Plaintiffs Social Security Disability decision violating 
their own Social Security Benefit policy in violation of ADA. Coca-Cola tried 
to hide their Social Security requirement from this Court and did not mention it 
one time (Exhibit D ,r Page 2); 8. Coca-Cola hid Plaintiffs Social Security's 
decision to continue to use their economic power against Plaintiff as a weapon. 
The evidence in this case includes fraud GA Code§ 34-6A-4 (2020). 
Finally, Plaintiff seeks relief that will make her whole. Plaintiff seeks 
compensation for the ongoing egregious abuse on the basis of her disability 
under O.C.G.A. 23-4-2 (2010) Remedy and under ADA 42 U.S.C. § 12111 
Subchapter I - Employment and multiple violations under 42 U.S.C. § 
12112 - Discrimination and all other federal and state laws upon which 
relief may be granted. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this 
Court grant Plaintiffs Motion for Summary Judgment. Plaintiff request that 
Coca-Cola be held accountable for ongoing unlawful employment practices and 
not be allowed to continue to operate above the law to harm qualified 
individuals with a known disability; and deny Coca-Cola's Motion to Dismiss 
(in default), with prejudice. 
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED, 
~~~ 
JAQUELINE EVERSON 
1530 Locust Log Way 
Austell, Georgia 30168 
Tel: 770-573-4038 
LOCAL RULE 5.lC AND 7.1D CERTIFICATION 
Pursuant to Local Rule 5.lC and 7.1D, I certify that this pleading has 
been prepared with Times New Roman 14 Point, the font and point selections 
approved by this Court in Local Rule 5 .1 C. 
