 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA 
ATLANTA DIVISION 
 
RICKY R. FRANKLIN, 
 
Plaintiff, 
 
v. 
 
HOLLIS COBB ASSOCIATES, INC., 
 
Defendant. 
 
 
 
Case No.  1:21-cv-02075-SDG 
 
Honorable Judge: Steven D. Grimberg 
 
 
DEFENDANT’S MEMORANDUM OF LAW 
IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 
Defendant, HOLLIS COBB ASSOCIATES, INC., (“HCA”), through its 
undersigned counsel, submits the following Memorandum of Law in support of its 
Motion for Summary Judgment. 
INTRODUCTION 
Plaintiff, Ricky Franklin (“Plaintiff” or “Franklin”) claims HCA violated sections 
227(a)(1) and 227(b)(1) of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA”). Specifically, 
Plaintiff’s only claim alleges that HCA violated the TCPA by placing calls to his cellular 
telephone using “automatic telephone dialing systems” (“ATDS”) and “artificial/pre-
recorded messages,” without his prior express consent. First, Defendant did not call 
Plaintiff’s telephone or leave messages without his prior express consent. In particular, 
on September 21, 2016, Plaintiff visited Northside Family Practice and Hospital (the 
“creditor”), where he provided information, signed, and represented acknowledgement 
of the creditor’s billing practices. Plaintiff authorized contact for reasons related to the 
services he received. Second, Plaintiff did not revoke his given consent to receive calls 
from HCA regarding the Debt.  
Third, Defendant manually dialed Plaintiff’s number and an agent briefly 
connected directly with him in July of 2017. Defendant did not call Plaintiff’s telephone 
with an ATDS or artificial or prerecorded voice, especially without consent. Fourth, 
Plaintiff has failed to establish that HCA used an autodialer system to communicate with 
him, nor has he provided any evidence to substantiate the allegations in his Complaint. 
Plaintiff has also failed to disclose an expert who can opine on HCA’s telephone 
equipment, or provide any evidence to support whether such equipment constitutes an 
ATDS. Lastly, Defendant could not have knowingly or willfully violated the TCPA when 
it manually dialed Plaintiff’s number, contrary to the allegations in his Complaint. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s claims that HCA violated the Telephone Consumer 
Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. § 227, et seq., fail as a matter of law. 
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
On May 17, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant lawsuit (Dkt. #1; #2). On June 9, July 12, 
and July 26, Defendant filed three motions respectively, requesting extensions of time to 
file a response to Plaintiff’s Complaint. (Dkt. #5; #9; #11). Defendant subsequently filed 
its Answer and Affirmative Defenses to Plaintiff’s Complaint, on August 9, 2021. (Dkt. 
#13). Following, pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(f), the parties conferred 
regarding a discovery plan, and Defendant filed, with Plaintiff’s consent, a Joint 
Preliminary Report and proposed discovery plan for the Court’s approval (Dkt. #14). 
Pursuant to the Court’s scheduling order and the Local Rules, the parties’ 
discovery timeline was set to expire on January 6, 2021. In response, both parties served 
their Initial Disclosures upon each other, with Plaintiff filing on September 17, 2021 and 
Defendant tendering its disclosures on November 8, 2021. However, Plaintiff failed to 
serve any discovery requests upon Defendant or communicate his intent to seek an 
extension of time. Specifically, Plaintiff has not attempted any communications via email, 
mail, CM/ECF, or otherwise to Defendant or to the Court, regarding his interest and 
intent or lack thereof in pursuing discovery and the continued litigation of this action. 
 Defendant now brings the instant action, pursuant to the Federal Rule of Civil 
Procedure 56 and Local Rule 56.1, hereby moving for summary judgment be entered in 
its favor and against Plaintiff. 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
A party is entitled to summary judgment if it “shows that there is no genuine 
dispute as to any material fact and is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Fed. R. Civ. 
P. 56(a).  “By its very terms, this standard provides that the mere existence of some 
alleged factual dispute between the parties will not defeat an otherwise properly 
supported motion for summary  judgment; the requirement is that there be no genuine 
issue of material fact.” Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc ., 477 U.S. 242, 247-48 (1986). The 
moving party may meet its burden for summary judgment merely by showing an absence 
of evidence to support an essential element of the nonmoving party’s case. See Celotex 
Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 323-25 (1986). After the moving party has satisfied its burden, 
the burden shifts to the non-movant to present specific facts showing a genuine dispute. 
Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp ., 475 U.S. 574, 586-87 (1986). The non-
movant must show more than “a mere scintilla of evidence” to defeat summary 
judgment. See Nebula Glass Int’l, Inc. v. Reinhold, Inc., 454 F.3d 1203, 1210 (11th Cir. 2006). 
Summary judgment is still appropriate even if the non-movant presents evidence that is 
“merely colorable” or “not significantly probative.” Stephens v. Mid-Continent Cas. Co ., 
749 F.3d 1318, 1321 (11th Cir. 2014). 
ARGUMENT 
The TCPA, as set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1), provides in relevant part as follows: 
(1) It shall be unlawful for any person within the United States, or any 
person outside the United States if the recipient is within the United 
States—  
(A) to make any call (other than a call made for emergency purposes 
or made with the prior express consent of the called party) using any 
automatic telephone dialing system or an artificial or prerecorded 
voice— 
(iii) to any telephone number assigned to a paging service, 
cellular telephone service, specialized mobile radio service, or 
other radio common carrier service, or any service for which 
the called party is charged for the call, unless such call is made 
solely to collect a debt owed to or guaranteed by the United 
States; 
(B) to initiate any telephone call to any residential telephone line 
using an artificial or prerecorded voice to deliver a message without 
the prior express consent of the called party, unless the call is 
initiated for emergency purposes, is made solely pursuant to the 
collection of a debt owed to or guaranteed by the United States, or is 
exempted by rule or order by the Commission under paragraph 
(2)(B); 
47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1). 
To establish a violation of the TCPA, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the defendant 
called a cellular telephone; (2) using an ATDS or prerecorded message or artificial voice; 
(3) without the prior consent of the recipient. Coleman v. Rite Aid of Ga., Inc., 284 F. Supp. 
3d. 1343, 1345-6 (N.D. Ga. 2018) (citing Augustin v. Santander Consumer USA, Inc ., 43 F. 
Supp. 3d. 1251, 1253 (M.D. Fla. 2012); Weed v. SunTrust Bank, No. 1:17-cv-3547, 2018 U.S. 
Dist. LEXIS 76234 (N.D. Ga. May 3, 2018) (citing 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1)(A)(iii)). Here, 
Plaintiff cannot meet this required burden.  
A. The Court Should Grant Summary Judgment in Favor of Defendant Because 
Plaintiff Gave Prior Express Consent to Receive the Calls at Issue. 
 
The TCPA only bars calls to cellular telephones made using an ATDS without the 
consent of the recipient. With this understanding, Plaintiff does allege that he “never 
consented to, requested, or otherwise desired or permitted, calls from HCA, on behalf of 
any other third party for the purpose of debt collection or any other purpose.” (Pl.’s 
Compl. ¶ 19). The Court should grant summary judgment in favor of Defendant because, 
put simply, HCA did not violate Section § 227(b)(1) of the TCPA—as a matter of law and 
undisputed fact—because Plaintiff gave his prior express consent to receive the calls at 
issue, when he provided his 3733 number to the creditor, and when he agreed that the 
creditor, its affiliates, and/or approved business associates—which includes Defendant—
could contact him regarding collection of any outstanding payments for services 
rendered.  
The Eleventh Circuit has determined that “if a person knowingly releases his 
phone number, calls are permitted because the called party has in essence requested the 
contact by providing the caller with their telephone number for use in normal business 
communications." Patterson v. Ally Fin., Inc., No. 3:16-cv-1592, 2018 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 15203, 
at *6 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 31, 2018) (citing Mais v. Gulf Coast Collection Bureau, Inc., 768 F.3d 1110, 
1118 (11th Cir. 2014). The provision of one’s phone number to a creditor, reasonably 
evidences prior express consent by the phone subscriber to be contacted at that number 
regarding the debt. Id. This Court has already held that Plaintiff gave prior express 
consent to receive calls from the creditor and its affiliates, which includes HCA. 
On September 21, 2016, as a part of his service experience through Northside 
Hospital, Plaintiff executed a financial acknowledgement form or notice (the “Notice”), 
providing his telephone number and agreeing to the following conditions: 
 “I authorize Northside Hospital, or any of its affiliates, contractors or 
business associates, to contact me by any telephone numbers, email 
addresses or other contact points provided by me or on my behalf) by the 
use of any automatic dialing system, by pre-recorded forms of 
voice/messaging systems, by electronic mail owned or used by the 
guarantor/responsible party, by telephone or by cell phone for reasons 
related to the services I received at Northside Hospital or payment for the 
services I received at Northside Hospital, including but not limited to, 
debt collection purposes. I further understand and acknowledge that my 
consent in receiving the aforementioned communications is not required 
nor is it a preceding condition to receive health care services at Northside 
Hospital.” 
Exhibit 1. 
 
The Notice, which Franklin executed, afforded him the opportunity to either (1) 
authorize and consent to, or (2) decline providing his consent to be contacted.  The decline 
option, stated: 
“I do not agree with the above statement and do not wish to be contacted 
by the use of any automatic dialing system; by pre-recorded forms of 
voice/messaging systems; by electronic mail or by receiving voice 
messages on my cell phone, except for clinical issues.” 
Exhibit 1. 
 
Plaintiff had equal latitude to decline extending consent, but instead, he willingly 
executed the consent option 1. In doing so, he plainly and explicitly agreed to the contact 
he now finds to be at issue in the instant matter.  
Even further, Plaintiff once again executed acknowledgement in a separate section 
within the Notice, submitting that “By signing below, I acknowledge and agree that I 
have read or had this form read to me and I understand and agree to its contents.” Each 
of the above ways—taken individually (much less together)—sufficiently establish 
Plaintiff provided prior express consent to receive the calls, and cannot now claim that 
HCA violated the TCPA by seeking to contact him without prior given consent. In fact, 
the Eleventh Circuit has entered judgment in favor of defendants on TCPA claims of 
similar facts and issues as here, finding that summary judgment was appropriate on 
defendants’ prior express consent defense. See Mais., 768 F.3d 1110, 1123 (11th Cir. 2014) 
(granting summary judgment precisely because the calls to Plaintiff fell within the TCPA 
prior express consent exception as interpreted by the FCC, and explaining that the 
Federal Communications Commission ("FCC”) made clear, consent to be called at a 
number in conjunction with a transaction extends to a wide range of calls regarding that 
transaction, even in at least some cases where the calls were made by a third party, and 
provided recognition of consent obtained and conveyed by an intermediary, to strongly 
support the court’s conclusion that in this case, plaintiff’s wife provided the cell phone 
number to the creditor through the Hospital). 
B. The Court Should Grant Summary Judgment in Favor of Defendant Because 
Plaintiff Did Not Revoke Consent to Be Called at the 3733 in Question. 
 
Plaintiff did not properly revoke consent to be called, and as a result, the phone 
calls placed to his 3733 Number were not in violation of the TCPA. In the absence of 
specification, the FCC may provide guidance as to the interpretation of revocation. Morris 
v. Ocwen Loan Servicing , No. 14-62126-CIV-ZLOCH, 2015 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117042, at *6 
(S.D. Fla. Aug. 24, 2015), As an initial matter, the standard for whether revocation is 
successful is whether the revocation “clearly expresses a desire not to receive further 
messages.” 30 FCC Rcd. 7961, 7996 (2015). Congress has conferred upon the FCC general 
authority to make rules and prescribe regulations necessary to implement or carry out 
the provisions of the TCPA. Murphy v. DCI Biologicals Orlando, Ltd. Liab. Co., 797 F.3d 1302, 
1305 (11th Cir. 2015); Mais, 768 F.3d 1110, 1117 (11th Cir. 2014). Moreover, consumers may 
revoke consent, using any reasonable method, including orally or in writing. Morris, 2015 
U.S. Dist. LEXIS 117042, at *7-8 (S.D. Fla. Aug. 24, 2015). (reasoning that consumers 
generally may revoke, for example, by way of a consumer-initiated call, directly in 
response to a call initiated or made by a caller, finding that in these situations, callers 
typically will not find it overly burdensome to implement mechanisms to record and 
effectuate a consumer's request to revoke his or her consent). Id. Here, Franklin did not 
expressly revoke consent to be called, either in writing or orally prior to August 25, 2017 
when Defendant received letter correspondence from him. See Exhibit 3. 
Furthermore, HCA maintains records of Plaintiff’s account notes, and 
communications resulting from placement of the account by the creditor. According to 
the account notes and call records, on July 14, 2017, Plaintiff received a single call from 
Defendant, the only communication during which Plaintiff spoke with Defendant 
directly, based on the prior given consent. See Exhibit 2. Defendant’s records verify that 
during this call, Plaintiff was asked about the balance in full (“BIF”) on his outstanding 
obligation, to which he hung up (“HU”). Conversely, according to his Complaint, 
Plaintiff purports to have “informed the representative to not call his cellphone and 
further, [he] does not owe a debt to this company.” (Pl.’s Compl. ¶ 8). In the alternate 
event that plaintiff alleges he revoked consent during this July 2017 call, the account notes 
do not reflect any oral revocation made by Franklin, nor that he expressed a desire not to 
receive further messages as he alleges in the instant Complaint. Under Eleventh Circuit 
precedent, the TCPA requires—at a minimum—express and clear revocation of consent; 
implicit revocation will not do. Welch v. Green Tree Servicing, LLC (In re Runyan), 530 B.R. 
801, 807 (Bankr. M.D. Fla. 2015). At minimum, Plaintiff hanging up does not constitute a 
sufficient enough oral expression of his consent being revoked.  
In Welch v. Green Tree Servicing, LLC , 530 B.R. 801, 804 (M.D. Fla. 2015), the 
borrowers told their loan servicer that they would not be able to settle the debt and that 
they could contact their attorney with any further questions. The borrowers argued that 
this revoked consent to be called, and the servicer violated the TCPA for its continued 
calls. Id. The Court rejected this argument, holding that, the TCPA requires at a minimum, 
express and clear revocation of consent. “Implicit revocation will not do.” Id. at 807. It 
concluded that oral revocation requires “a measure of clarity, which the [borrowers] have 
not shown.” Id. Similarly, Plaintiff has fallen short of demonstrating either through 
correspondence or other evidence, that he revoked consent. Additionally, per HCA’s 
policies and practices, any revocation made during prior consented contact such as a call, 
as in this circumstance, demands that the request be documented and the account be shut 
down. 
Hence, upon receipt of Plaintiff’s demand letter on August 25, 2017, 
communicating his intent to litigate, HCA immediately placed the account under 
compliance review for shut down, per its policies and practices. Effectively, HCA 
understood and interpreted Plaintiff’s demand letter as a clear expression and desire not 
to be further contacted regarding the outstanding Debt, to which it fully complied. Thus, 
Plaintiff has failed to establish a violation of the TCPA as alleged in his single count 
Complaint. 
Similarly, in Cesaire v. Medical Services , the plaintiff told the caller in response to 
their inquiry about a balance on his account, “If you don’t have—if you can’t give the 
information, don’t call my phone. Thank you,” and proceeded to end the call. No. 6:15 cv 
1886, 2016 U.S. LEXIS 162615, at *15 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 23, 2016). The court reasoned that 
this was not, in no uncertain terms, a clear and unequivocal revocation of consent because 
the statement amounted to a “conditional directive” rather than a “clear expression of a 
desire not to be called again.” Id. Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that when he 
“answered the phone and was told by the representative that they were trying to collect 
a debt,” he stated that he “has never heard of the Company, and informed to 
representative to not call his cellphone, and further, [he] does not owe a debt to this 
company.” (Pl.’s Compl. ¶ 7-8). In contrast, Defendant’s records verify that on July 14, 
2017, in response to their call inquiring about the Debt, Plaintiff also ended the call, giving 
no clear and unequivocal indication, in no uncertain terms, that he was revoking his 
consent. Outside of simply hanging up the call, if Plaintiff alleges he expressed revocation 
during the call, it was inherently ambiguous. According to HCA’s records, there is no 
indication that he specified or made known that he did not wish to be called in the future. 
In sum, Plaintiff executed acknowledgement to be contacted for reasons related to 
the services he received at Northside Hospital. He did not expressly revoke consent to be 
called at a latter period, prior to August 25, 2017.  
C. Plaintiff Failed To Produce Any Evidence Showing That HCA Contacted Him 
Using An Automatic Telephone Dialing System 
The TCPA’s definition of an ATDS states that it is “equipment which has the 
capacity (1) to store or produce telephone numbers to be called, using a random or 
sequential number generator; and (2) to dial such numbers.” 47 U.S.C. § 227(a)(1). The 
scope of what constitutes an ATDS has evolved over time, culminating in major decisions 
including ACA Int'l v. FCC, 435 U.S. App. D.C. 1, 885 F.3d 687 (2018), and most recently 
Facebook, Inc. v. Duguid, 141 S. Ct. 1163 (2021). 
First, there is no dispute that Plaintiff consented to receiving automated telephone 
calls from Defendant, despite the Complaint’s allegations to the contrary. 
Notwithstanding this, to consider an alternate instance wherein Plaintiff never provided 
his consent to the creditor and its affiliates, contractors, and business partners—which 
include HCA, his claims must still fail because he did not and has not produced any 
evidence showing that he was contacted by the use of an automatic telephone dialing 
system as defined by the TCPA. It is the plaintiff's burden to establish that a call was 
made using an ATDS. Dotson v. Dish Network L.L.C., No. 2:19-CV-21, 2020 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 
48783, at *8 (S.D. Ga. Mar. 19, 2020) (citing Musenge v. SmartWay of the Carolinas, LLC, NO. 
3:15-cv-153, 2018 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 158044, at *7 (W.D.N.C. Sept. 17, 2018) (underscoring 
the plaintiff’s burden to allege the use of an ATDS by the defendant); see also San Pedro-
Salcedo v. Haagen-Dazs Shoppe Co., No. 5:17-cv-03504, 2019 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 208228, at *15 
(N.D. Ca. Dec. 3, 2019) (finding that whether defendant used an ATDS was a significant 
part or essential element of the plaintiff’s case, and she carries the ultimate burden of 
affirmatively proving the defendant used an ATDS). 
In ACA Int'l v. FCC, the D.C. Circuit rejected the FCC’s expansive notion of what 
constitutes an ATDS under the TCPA. The court reviewed the FCC declaratory ruling 
about what forms of automated dialing equipment are subject to the TCPA’s restrictions 
on unconsented calls. 435 U.S. App. D.C. 1, 885 F.3d 687 (2018).  In response, it concluded 
that “we set aside the Commission's explanation of which devices qualify as an ATDS.” 
Id. at 695. It held that the Commission’s broad interpretation of “capacity” resulted in 
overly expansive outcomes where any device is deemed an ATDS regardless of whether 
autodialer features are used to make a call. Id. at 704. “Those sorts of anomalous outcomes 
are bottomed in an unreasonable, and impermissible, interpretation of the statute's 
reach.” Id. at 697.  
Following ACA Int’l, the definition of an ATDS is effectively stripped to its plain 
language, and requires the equipment at issue to generate random or sequential numbers 
to be dialed, and to dial them. See also Dominguez v. Yahoo, Inc., 894 F.3d 116, 121 (3d Cir. 
2018) (affirming summary judgment for defendant where “[plaintiff] cannot point to any 
evidence that creates a genuine dispute of fact as to whether the [system] had the present 
capacity to function as an autodialer by generating random or sequential telephone 
numbers and dialing those numbers.”); Johnson v. Yahoo!, Inc., 346 F. Supp. 3d 1159, 1160 
(N.D. Ill. 2018) (holding that the system did not have the capacity to generate random or 
sequential numbers to be dialed, but instead pulled numbers from a stored list that was 
not generated at random, hence not an ATDS).  
In the most recent decision by the Supreme Court of the United States , Facebook, 
Inc. v. Duguid , resolved fully, any conflict among the courts regarding the use of an 
autodialer. The Court concluded that Facebook did not violate the TCPA because the 
definition of an autodialer required that in all cases, whether storing or producing 
numbers to be called, the equipment in question had to use a random or sequential 
number generator, which petitioner's did not. 141 S. Ct. 1163, 1165 (2021). “The statutory 
context confirms that the autodialer definition excludes equipment that does not use a 
random or sequential number generator…Expanding the definition of an autodialer to 
encompass any equipment that merely stores and dials telephone numbers would take a 
chainsaw to these nuanced problems when Congress meant to use a scalpel.” Id. at 1171. 
Thus, as the Supreme Court concluded, a necessary feature of an autodialer under 
§227(a)(1)(A) is the capacity to use a random or sequential number generator to either 
store or produce phone numbers to be called. Id. at 1173.  
Here, plaintiff has failed to establish or provide any evidence proving HCA’s use 
of autodialer equipment as defined by the Supreme Court. Furthermore, HCA’s records 
verify that on July 14, 2017 when the call was placed to Plaintiff’s 3733 number, Defendant 
did so by manually dialing the number in question, followed by the brief conversation 
with Plaintiff, during which he hung up. In light of the narrowed view of what constitutes 
an automatic dialing system in the wake of ACA Int’l  and Facebook, Inc ., courts have 
consistently determined that plaintiffs must show that the dialing system at issue could 
either randomly or sequentially generate numbers and then dial those numbers. Franklin 
cannot make such a showing in this case. Additionally, TCPA plaintiffs typically employ 
the use of experts testimony concerning the technical aspects of a dialing system, to 
establish that defendants’ use falls under the statute. Plaintiff has furthermore failed to 
present any evidence of expert testimony, to indicate or opine upon HCA’s alleged use 
of an autodialer to place the calls at issue. 
Plaintiff cannot meet his burden of showing that the dialing system used in this 
case was an automatic dialing system under the statute because there is no evidence 
about the system’s capabilities. Both parties issued initial disclosures and Defendant 
disclosed a corporate representative. However, Franklin did not depose the corporate 
representative about the dialing system in this case, did not seek information about the 
system’s ability to generate random or sequential numbers and then to dial them, and 
did not seek to have the system personally inspected or tested. More, Franklin did not 
identify or produce any qualified expert to proffer testimony or evidence about the 
system’s capabilities, or issue any discovery requests in this case. That a dialing system 
is an automatic telephone dialing system under the statute is an element of a TCPA claim, 
and here, Plaintiff cannot establish that the system in this case qualified as one, to satisfy 
his burden proof.  
In addition, he may not seek to avoid summary judgment by claiming a material 
dispute of fact exists as to whether an ATDS was used. Courts “must grant summary 
judgment ‘against a party who fails to make a showing sufficient to establish the existence 
of an element essential to that party's case, and on which that party will bear the burden 
of proof at trial.’” Kol B'Seder, Inc. v. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd's of London, 766 F. App'x 
795, 802 (11th Cir. 2019) (quoting Celotex, 477 U.S. at 322). As it is Plaintiff’s burden to 
prove HCA used an ATDS, and Plaintiff has failed to disclose any evidence to support 
his claims, he cannot create a material dispute of fact solely by the lack of testimony. 
Despite this, Defendant has fully established that calls placed to Plaintiff’s 
telephone number were pursuant to his prior express consent, given on September 21, 
2016. Thus, judgment should properly be entered in HCA’s favor. 
D. The Dialing System Used In This Case Was Not An Automatic Telephone Dialing 
System 
 
The dialing system in this case was not an automatic dialer as defined by the 
statute. HCA’s records and call log verify that the July 2017 call to Plaintiff’s 3733 number 
was manually dialed. It does not reflect that Franklin was called using an ATDS, nor that 
the telephone number which HCA received from the creditor upon placement of the 
account, was generated randomly or sequentially to be dialed by an autodialer. 
Moreover, the Commission has also addressed the precise functions a device must 
have the capacity to perform for it to be considered an ATDS, affirming that the “basic 
functions of an autodialer are to dial numbers without human intervention.” 30 FCC Rcd 
7961, 7974 (F.C.C. July 10, 2015). Nothing in the TCPA prevents callers from manually 
dialing. Id. ACA Int'l recognized and more fully adopted this rule, interpreting the TCPA 
to exclude equipment requiring human intervention to dial, from the statutory definition 
of ATDS. “That makes sense given that auto’ in autodialer—or, equivalently, ‘automatic’ 
in ‘automatic telephone dialing system,’ []—would seem to envision non-manual dialing 
of telephone numbers. 435 U.S. App. D.C. 1, 885 F.3d 687, 703 (2018). (emphasis added.)  
The Northern District of Georgia itself, has analyzed this issue, considering what 
constitutes an ATDS, and finding that where a system requires an agent or representative 
to manually click on or enter a telephone number to initiate a call, this requires human 
intervention not within the definition of an ATDS under the TCPA. See Maddox v. CBE 
Grp., Inc., 2018 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 88568, at *11 (N.D. Ga. May 22, 2018) (All of the calls made 
to plaintiff were done through defendant’s Manual Clicker Application, a system which 
requires human intervention to manually “click” initiate a call. “Additionally, the system 
does not use any kind of predictive or statistical algorithm to engage in predictive dialing. 
For these reasons, it does not qualify as an ATDS, and Defendant is entitled to summary 
judgment on Plaintiff's TCPA claim.”); Strauss v. CBE Grp., Inc., 173 F. Supp. 3d 1302, 1309 
(S.D. Fla. 2016) (explaining that to “determine whether a dialer is a predictive dialing 
system, and therefore an ATDS, ‘the primary consideration . . . is whether human 
intervention is required at the point in time at which the number is dialed.’”); Glasser v. 
Hilton Grand Vacations Co., LLC , 341 F. Supp. 3d 1305, 1312 (M.D. Fla. 2018) (“Since it is 
undisputed that calls cannot be made unless an agent clicks on the screen and forwards 
a telephone number to the server to be called, Defendant's ‘point-to-click’ system does 
not constitute an autodialer system under the TCPA.” 
In the instant action, it is undisputed that Plaintiff gave prior written consent to be 
contacted by HCA. Defendant’s records equally confirm the use of human intervention 
through manual calling, critical to the ATDS analysis. Plaintiff has also produced no 
evidence to support the allegations that he received a prerecorded messages without 
consent. In fact, his Complaint alleges that he received a total of eleven (11) calls, leaving 
“artificial/pre-recorded messages from Defendant Hollis Cobb Associates calling on 
behalf of a third party,” and that he never consented to the calls from HCA. (Pl.’s Compl. 
¶¶ 11, 19). Based on Plaintiff’s 2016 executed acknowledgment Notice, we know that he 
in fact provided prior express consent to be contacted through the means he now takes 
issue with in this action. Even so, Defendant’s call logs verify that a total of five (5) calls 
were made, leaving Plaintiff messages regarding the Debt on his 3733 number. Separately 
(much less together), the evidence undermines Plaintiff’s notion that Defendant violated 
the TCPA in its communications with him. 
E. Any Violations of the TCPA Cannot Have Been Knowing or Willful 
Even if Plaintiff’s consent to be contacted does not bar his instant TCPA claim, the 
Court should still grant summary judgment in favor of Defendant because HCA’s 
conduct was neither a willful or knowing violation of the TCPA. Section 227(b)(3) of the 
statute requires “willful or knowing” conduct, and entails that you know you are 
performing an act that violates the statute. Lary v. Trinity Physician Fin. & Ins. Servs ., 780 
F.3d 1101, 1107 (11th Cir. 2015) (citing Alea London Ltd. v. Am. Home Servs., Inc ., 638 F.3d 
768, 776 (11th Cir. 2011). Thus, a violation is only willful or knowing when the defendant 
intended to perform the conduct, or knew that it was in fact violative of the TCPA. 
 First, subject to the changed standards of what defines an ATDS following ACA 
Int’l and Facebook, Inc., and the lack of evidence to support his claims, Plaintiff cannot 
establish that Defendant called him either with knowledge that an ATDS was in use, or 
willfully using it, in violation of the statute. Second, after Plaintiff’s July 2017 call with 
HCA’s representative, the agent made note of the communication, that when Franklin 
was asked about the Debt, he hung up. In so doing, HCA further established that its 
system is configured to manually dial Plaintiff’s number, creating a reasonable belief that 
it was not using an ATDS. Third, Defendant’s records made note of the call being 
manually dialed, in conjunction with the pre-existing showing that Plaintiff had given 
prior express consent to be called in the first place. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s claim that 
HCA willfully and/or knowingly violated the TCPA, fails. 
CONCLUSION 
 Defendant’s undisputed evidence shows that (i) in September of 2017, Plaintiff 
executed express consent to receive calls regarding any outstanding financial obligations 
related to services he received from Northside Hospital; (2) Plaintiff did not revoke the 
established prior given consent extended to HCA as an affiliate and business associate of 
the creditor; (3) the manual call placed to Plaintiff in July of 2017 establishes the human 
intervention requirement necessary to prove that HCA’s system did not call or generate 
random or sequential numbers in its communication with Plaintiff; (4) and that Franklin 
has failed to present any evidence showing a statutory violation by Defendant. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s claims are unfounded. He cannot satisfy his burden of proof of 
showing that Defendant’s conduct was in violation of the TCPA, or that the conduct was 
willful and knowing. Thus, HCA is entitled to judgment against Plaintiff. 
WHEREFORE, Defendant, HOLLIS COBB ASSOCIATES, INC., respectfully 
requests that for the foregoing reasons, this Court enter an Order granting Defendant’s 
motion for summary judgment, entering judgment in favor of Defendant and against 
Plaintiff as to the Complaint, terminating this matter, and for any other relief this Court 
deems just and proper. 
 
        Respectfully submitted, 
      
        HOLLIS COBB ASSOCIATES, INC., 
        Defendant 
 
 
        By: Its Attorneys 
  
 /s/ Paul Buschmann 
        Paul Buschmann, Esq. 
                    GA Bar No. 098430 
        HINSHAW & CULBERTSON LLP 
        One East Broward Blvd., Suite 1010 
        Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301 
        Phone: 954-375-1134 
        Facsimile: 954-467-1024 
        e-mail: pbuschmann@hinshawlaw.com 
 
 
 
Dated: February 7, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I, Paul Buschmann, hereby certify that on this 7th day of February, 2022, I electronically 
filed the foregoing, DEFENDANT’S MEMORANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT OF 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT with the Clerk of Court by using the 
CM/ECF system, which will send a notice of electronic filing to all parties of record.  
 
 
/s/ Paul Buschmann 
                        Paul Buschmann 
 
 
