IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORG ---F,-Lrn- ,N-C-LE-RK-'SO-FF-1c-E ----. 
ATLANTADMSION U.S.O.C. -Atlanta 
JACQUELINE R. EVERSON, ) 
) 
Plaintiff, ) 
) 
vs. ) 
) 
) 
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, ) 
) 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE ) 
COMPANY, ) 
) 
Defendant. ) 
AUG 11 2023 
Case No. 1:23-CV-02947 U L,{s 
PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AGAINST 
DEFENDANTS MOTION TO DISMISS 
Pursuant to Rules 12(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Plaintiff, 
Jacqueline Everson ("Plaintiff') submits this Motion for Summary Judgment 
and Memorandum of Law in support of Motion for Summary Judgment against 
Defendants ("Def s"); The Coca-Cola Company's ("Coca-Cola") and Answers 
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company's ("Liberty Mutual") Motion to Dismiss 
Plaintiff's Complaint for six reas ons: 1) Plainti ff's federa l law and state law 
causes of action in the Complaint is not for the "one and only" L 1D benefit 
policy provided by Liberty Mutua l. This is a claim for ongoing discrimination 
of Plaintiffs civil rights solely on the basis of Plaintiff's disability under the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, 1990 ("ADA") and is not preempted by BRISA. 
Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC (Exhibit A); 2) Liberty Mutual 
Insurance Company is the proper defendant in this action as administrator for 
"The Coca-Cola Company" to evaluate, manage and decide all employee (long­
term) disability status; "disabled" or "not disabled" using Social Security as the 
standard; (Exhibit D); 3) Plaintiffs Complaint against Defendants is a 
recognizable cause of action in multiple discrimination violations under ADA; 
U.S.C. § 12111 Subchapter I - EMPLOYMENT, 42 U.S. Code § 12112 -
Discrimination. The Second Circuit held that disabled former employees have an 
ADA cause of action for benefits discrimination, provided the former employee 
was a "qualified individual" during the term of his employment; 4) Plaintiffs 
claims in the Complaint against Liberty Mutual do not pertain to a claim for a 
"single" LTD benefit from the only Policy issued by Liberty Mutual under 
ERISA; a policy issued for "one" LTD benefit. Instead, Plaintiff's claims are for 
ongoing discrimination on the basis of her disability; violations of Plaintiffs civil 
rights under ADA. Therefore, Plaintiffs claims for discrimination violations, is 
not barred by the doctrines of res judicata and/or collateral estoppel; 5) Plaintiffs 
claims in the Complaint were brought within the applicable statue of limitations. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from the EEOC for acts of 
discrimination under ADA (Exhibit A); and thus, Plaintiff's claims are sufficient 
to support the relief requested by the Plaintiff; 6) Coca-Cola 's Answer to 
Plaintiffs Complaint is in default for failure to answer within 30 days as required 
by Georgia law. Liberty Mutual Insurance Company continues to operate with 
disrespect for the law and Plaintiffs disability. Plaintiff is asking the Court to 
Dismiss Liberty Mutual Company's Motion to Dismiss and Memorandum of 
Law in Support ofDefendant Liberty Mutual ' s Motion to Dismiss , with prejudice. 
I. 
FACTS IN THE COMPLAINT 
Plaintiff was a Sr. Financial Analyst employed by The Coca-Cola 
Company from 1988 to 2005. Plaintiff was terminated in 2005 after being 
classified "no longer considered disabled" (Exhibit H, I). In 2003, Plaintiff 
became ill and was diagnosed thru an MRI of her cervical spine. Plaintiff's 2003, 
MRI records from Liberty Mutual ' s file diagnosed Plaintiff with a severe cervical 
spine condition: "myelomalacia (cord disease), C4-5 Right posterolateral focal 
disc herniation exerting a mass effect upon the right and left central nerve roots 
(Exhibit Q). Plaintiffs 2004, EMG test records from Liberty Mutual 's file 
diagnosed Plaintiff with muscle atrophy (loss) and severe nerve damage: Bilateral 
and mid cervical radiculopathies (Exhibit R). Plainti ff' s 2004 , Neurological 
Exam records from Liberty Mutual' s file diagnosis is: "Myeloradiculopathy 
( spinal cord and spinal nerve root damage) with evidence of flattening of the 
spinal cord" (Exhibit S). 
In 2005, Plaintiff was terminated by Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual after a 
"not disabled' classification by Liberty Mutual (Exhibit H, I). Coca-Cola and 
Liberty Mutual would NOT have been able to classify Plaintiff "not disabled" 
and as a "sneak out case" if they had not discriminated against Plaintiffs Social 
Security Disability decision violating their own Social Security Policy 
requirement and discriminating against Plaintiff on the basis of her disability in 
violation of ADA. Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual did not mention one time that 
Plaintiff was approved for permanent Social Security disability. Coca-Cola and 
Liberty Mutual did not mention one time that they had a Social Security Policy. 
Defendants are hiding facts that discriminate against Plaintiff solely on the basis 
of her disability in violation of ADA and other Georgia laws. This is fraudulent 
and unlawful employment practices. 
II. 
ARGUMENT AND AUTHORITIES 
A. STANDARD GOVERNING RULE 12{c) MOTION FOR 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12{c) a court may grant Summary 
Judgment when a Complaint states a claim upon which relief can be granted. 
Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC for violations under ADA (Exhibit 
A). Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment includes clear fuctual evidence to 
back up Plaintiff's Complaint and support multiple claims of violations under 
ADA. Plaintiff has sufficient evidence supported by facts to back up all charges 
of discrimination solely on the basis of Plaintiff's disability in violation of ADA. 
Plaintiff has provided dear facts that are consistent with Plaintiff's allegations of 
discrimination on the basis of her disability and relief should be granted based on 
truthful evidence. Summary Judgment is appropriate where "the pleadings, 
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with 
affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and 
that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law." Fed. R. Civ. P. 
56 ( c ). The party seeking summary judgment bears the burden of demonstrating 
the absence of a genuine dispute as to any material fact. Herzog v. Castle Rock 
Entm't, 193 F.3d 1241, 1246 (11th Cir. 1999). Once the moving party has met 
this burden, the non-mo vant must demonstrate that summary judgment is 
inappropriate by designating specific facts showing a genUJDe issue for 
trial. Graham v. State Farm Mui. Ins. Co., 193 F.3d 1274, 1282 (11th Cir. 1999). 
The non-moving party "need not present evidence in a form necessary for 
admission at trial; however, he may not merely rest on his pleadings." Id. The 
Court must view all evidence in the light most fa orable to the party opposing the 
motion and must resolve all reasonable doubts in the 
non-movant's favor. United of Omaha Life Ins. Co. v. Sun Life Ins. Co. of 
Am., 894 F.2d 1555, 1558 (11th Cir. 1990). "[C]redibility determinations, the 
weighing of evidence, and the drawing of inferences from the facts are the 
function of the jury .... " Graham, 193 F.3d at 1282. "If the record presents 
factual issues, the court must not decide them; it must deny the motion and 
proceed to trial." Herzog, 193 F.3d at 1246. But, "[w]here the record taken as a 
whole could not lead a rational trier of fact to find for the non-moving party," 
summary judgment for the moving party is proper. Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co., 
Ltd. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 587, 106 S.Ct. 1348, 89 L.Ed.2d 538 
(1986). 
Plaintiffs Complaint specifically references all Plaintiffs Coca-Cola 
employment records related to her "disability" and ongoing discrimination acts 
against the Plaintiff all on the basis of her disability; Under ADA laws. Plaintiffs 
evidence is attached to this Memorandum in Support of Summary Judgment 
(Exhibits A to S). 
Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual are hiding evidence in this case that 
confirms Plaintiff is permanently disabled by the Social Security Administration 
since her last day at work and to this present day. Coca-Cola and Liberty Mutual 
did not mention Plaintiff's Social Security decision , not even one time. Coca-
Cola and Liberty Mutual continue to maintain that Plaintiff is "not disabled". 
Plaintiff is providing clear evidence of fraud and discrimination solely on the 
basis of Plaintiff's disability under the rules of the Social Security Administration 
(Exhibit B). 
Coca-Cola has no respect for the law and has filed their Answer to 
Plaintiff's Complaint (August 4, 2023) after the 30 day time set by the Rules of 
Civil Procedure s without leave. Coca-Cola's Motion t o D ismiss is in default. 
Coca-Cola's Motion to Dismiss should be denied, with prejudice under O.C.G.A. 
9-11-12 (2010). 
B. PLAINTIFF FEDERAL AND STATE LAW CAUSES IS NOT 
PREEMPTED BY ERISA 
Plaintiff's Federal and State law causes under ADA are for multiple 
discrimination violations on the basis of Plaintiffs disability and is not 
preempted by ERISA. Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC for 
discrimination under ADA (Exhibit A). ''Ninth Circuit disposition - It held that 
the continuing violation doctrine "allows courts to consider conduct that would 
ordinarily be time-barred 'as long' as the untimely incidents represent an ongoing 
unlawful employment practice.'" Morgan, 232 F. 3d 108, 1014 (9th Cir. 2000) 
( quotation omitted); In fact, Coca-Cola, the Plaintiffs employer is the sponsor 
for the Disability Policy presented by Liberty Mutual (LM Motion, Exhibit A). 
Coca-Cola is not a "party" to the ERISA case referenced; as required by BRISA § 
502 E nforcement l aws requiring both defendants . " ERISA § 502. CIVIL 
ENFORCEMENT; The plan sponsor establishes the plan and is the primary 
obligor responsible to satisfy the promises it made to covered workers as detailed 
in the written plan contract. In order to enforce the sponsor ' s promises and to 
collect any possible judgment obtained in a § 502(a)(l)(B) benefits claim, the 
obligor under the plan contract (the sponsor), plus any other party that assumes 
liability under the plan contract by agreement with the plan sponsor ( a trustee or 
an insurer), must be party defendants." Coca-Cola is the defendant in all other 
Coca-Cola employee ERISA cases accept the Plaintiffs (LM Motion, Exhibit D). 
Plaintiff's ERISA case lasted from (2005 to 2009}, (Def's Motion Exhibit D, E). 
These are Coca-Cola employee ERISA cases before, during, and after Plaintiff's 
BRISA case; See: Byars v. Coca-Cola Civil Action File No. l:0l-CV-3124-TWT 
(N.D. Ga. Mar. 18, 2004). Palmeri v. Coca-Cola Company Civil Action File No. 
l:0J-CV-3498-TWT (N.D. Ga. Aug. 28, 2006). Bleier v. Coca-Cola Civil Action 
File No. 1:06-CV-697-TWT ( .D. Ga. Oct. 131 2006). Perras v. The Coca-Cola 
Company of North America, 1 :2019-cv-01831 (11th Cir. 2022) . Plaintiffs ADA 
and related claims are proper under Federal and State law and are not preempted 
by ERISA. 
C. LIBERTY MUTUAL IS A PROPER DEFENDANT 
Liberty Mutual owned Liberty Life until it was sold to Lincoln Financial 
Group (Exhibit M). Liberty Mutual is a proper defendant as "agent" for Coca­
Cola, See Liberty Mutual letterhead (Exhibit D). Liberty Mutual committed the 
first ADA violation against Plaintiff by requiring her to apply for Social Security 
Disability and would not accept it to this day (Exhibit D , page 2). O.C.G.A. 
§ 16-2-22: 1. "Agent" means any director, officer, servant, employee, or other 
person who is authorized to act in behalf of the corporation. Liberty Mutual is the 
only defendant in Plaintifrs Coca-Cola ERISA case (LM Motion, Exhibit D). 
Coca-Cola is a proper defendant as Plaintiff's "employer" . "Although O.C.G.A. § 
16-9-50, defining the crime of deceptive business practices, does not contain in 
the statutory definition any indication of a legislative purpose to impose liability 
on a corporation, the state is not required to allege the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 
16-2-22 in accusations under § 16-9-50, but only to prove that defendant 
corporation or managerial agent authorized deceptive practices. State v. Military 
Circle Pet Ctr. No. 94, Inc., 257 Ga. 388, 360 S.E.2d 248 (1987) . Liberty Mutual 
committed a cnme O.C.G.A. § 16-2-1, O.C.G.A . § 16-2-20, with criminal 
responsibilities of a c orporation § 16-2-22. Liberty Mutual saved Coca-Cola 
money thru discrimination against the Plaintiff on the basis of her disability 
(Exhibit D ). Liberty Mutual has an affirmative duty to determine whether an 
employee is "disabled' or "not disabled". See Liberty Mutual letter to Plaintiff: 
Quote: "Based on the definition of disability and the medical information in our 
file, you qualify" (Exhibit D). Likewise, "the broader statutory context" 
underlying the acts "demonstrates that Coca-Cola impose a continuing duty for 
Liberty Mutual as "agent" to report employee disability classifications. That is, 
"[b ]y monitoring the employee "disability" status; The Coca-Cola Company 
evidently imposed an ongoing duty for Liberty Mutual to review Plaintiffs 
disability classification (Exhibit H). Thus, "if the actor under the affirmative duty 
keeps failing to act while the underlying problem remains unremedied, then the 
repeated instances of inaction constitute old and new violations." Liberty Mutual 
had Plaintiff's SSDI proof within their possession before the ERISA pretrial: See 
pretrial order filed by Liberty Mutual on 08/07 /07 (Exhibit C ,r 31 ). Liberty 
Mutual has me classified as "not disabled" to this day. Plaintiff asks the Court 
and Liberty Mutual to forgive her error in stating that Plaintiff is classified 
"totally disabled" as a requirement to receive Early Retirement Pension. Coca­
Cola also erroneously stated an error in the Background section of its Motion to 
Dismiss; Quote "In 2003, Plaintiff was diagnosed with a back condition" 
(Plaintiff has never had a back condition). Coca-Cola had a copy of Plaintiff's 
MRI of her cervical spine (neck) since 2003, also used by Liberty Mutual to 
classify Plaintiff as "totally disabled from working" (Exhibit E, F). Accordingly, 
Liberty Mutual is a proper defendant pursuant to Georgia law and ADA as an 
"agent" for The Coca-Cola Company. Liberty Mutual accepted liability for Coca­
Cola as "agent" in deciding employee disability classifications and its benefit 
disputes in (BRISA) and is a party to "multiple" violations under the Americans 
with Disability Act, of 1990 and other laws; by discriminating against a qualified 
individual with a known disability thru discrimination and misclassification. Both 
defendants are proper parties in Plaintiffs Complaint as set forth in the evidence 
by this Motion for Summary Judgment and Memorandum in Support of Motion 
for Summary Judgment. 
D. PLAINTIFF'S CLAJMS ARE RECOGNIZED UNDER ADA 
Plaintiff's has an EEOC right to sue letter for ADA violations. All 
Plaintiff's claims for discrimination on the basis of her disability are violations of 
Plaintiffs civil rights. Under ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 12111 Prohibits covered 
employers from discriminating against people w ith disabilities in all 
employment-related activities. 42 U.S.C. § 12112(a) (1994) (prohibiting 
discrimination "against a qualified individual with a disability"); Gonzales v. 
Gamer Food Servs., Inc., 89 F.3d 1523, 1529 (11th Cir. 1996) (stating that 
"interpreting the ADA to allow any disabled former employee to sue a former 
employer essentially renders the [ qualified individual with a disability] 
requirement. Universal Citation: GA Code § 34-6A-4 (2020) Prohibited 
discriminatory activities against persons with disabilities. Plaintiff has a right to 
sue letter from EEOC for ADA discrimination violations (Exhibit A). Therefore, 
Plaintiff's claims for discrimination violations are recognized under ADA and 
Georgia laws. 
E. PLAINTIFF'S CLAIMS ARE NOT BARRED BY THE DOCTRINES 
FOF RES JUDICATA AND /OR COLLATERAL ESTOPPEL 
All Plaintiffs claims are for discrimination solely on the basis of her 
disability and violations of Plaintiff's civil rights under ADA, 42 U.S.C. § 12111 
Prohibits covered employers from discriminating against people with disabilities 
in all employment-related activities. 42 U.S.C. § 12112(a) 1994) (prohibiting 
discrimination "against a qualified individual with a disability"); Gonzales v. 
Gamer Food Servs., Inc., 89 F.3d 1523, 1529 (11th Cir. 1996) (stating that 
"interpreting the ADA to allow any disabled former employee to sue a former 
employer essentially renders the [ qualified individual with a disability] 
requirement. Plaintiff has a right to sue letter from EEOC for ADA 
discrimination violations (Exhibit A). Therefore, Plaintiff's claims for 
discrimination violations under ADA, is not barred by the doctrines of res 
judicata and/or collateral estoppel. 
F. PLAINTIFF'S LAWSUIT IS WITHIN THE APPLICABLE 
STATUE OF LIMITATIONS 
Plaintiffs claims of discrimination under ADA were brought within the 
applicable statue of limitation. Plaintiff has an EEOC right to sue letter for 
Americans with Disabilities violations (Exhibit A). This is not an ERISA claim. 
Therefore, Plaintiff's lawsuit is timely. 
G. DEFENDANT COCA-COLA IS IN DEFAULT FOR FAILURE TO 
ANSWER COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS AS REQUIRED 
Plaintiff is opening as a matter of right, judgement against Defendant 
Coca-Cola (default) for failure to Answer Plaintiffs Complaint in 30 days as 
required by law, GA Code § 9-11-55 (2020). Plaintiff is asking the Court to 
Dismiss The Coca-Cola Company's Motion to Dismiss with prejudice and not 
allow Defendant's Motion to Dismiss as part of the record. Time for filing 
answer in court of record may not be varied. - When the legislature declares a 
particular county court to be a court of record, thus bringing the court under the 
provisions of the Civil Practice Act (see now O.C.G.A. Ch. 11, T. 9), it cannot 
constitutionally thereafter, either in the same Act or in a subsequently enacted 
law, vary the rules of practice and procedure provided for in that Act by adding 
provisions requiring defendants to file defensive pleadings sooner than 30 days 
after service of the complaint on the defendants. Gresham v. Symmers, 227 Ga. 
616, 182 S.E.2d 764 (1971). 
REQUEST FOR RELIEF 
Finally, Plaintiff seeks relief that will make her whole. Plaintiff seeks 
compensation for the ongoing egregious abuse on the basis of her disability under 
O.C.G.A. 23-4-2 (2010) Remedy and under ADA 42 U.S.C. § 12111 Subchapter 
I - Employment and multiple violations under 42 U.S.C. § 12112 -
Discrimination and all other federal and state laws upon which relief may be 
granted . 
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED , 
g~~ 
JACQUELINE EVERSON 
1530 Locust Log Way 
Austell, Georgia 30168 
Tel: 770-573-4038 
LOCAL RULE 5.lC AND 7.1D CERTIFICATION 
Pursuant to Local Rule 5.lC and 7.1D, I certify that this pleading has been 
prepared with Times New Roman 14 Point, the font and point selections 
approved by this Court in Local Rule 5 .1 C. 
