IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS 
EASTERN DIVISION 
 
 
CYNTHIA DONALD,   ) 
      ) 
  Plaintiff,   ) 
      )  Case No. 20 CV 6815 
      ) 
      )  Hon. Elaine E. Bucklo 
      ) 
CITY OF CHICAGO, et al.,   )  Magistrate Judge Jeffrey Cole 
      ) 
  Defendant.   ) 
 
                          DEFENDANT JOHNSON’S MEMORANDUM OF LAW  
                          IN SUPPORT OF HIS MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
     Defendant, Eddie Johnson (“Mr. Johnson”), by and through his undersigned counsel,  
 
pursuant to Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the applicable Local Rules,  
 
respectfully moves this Court for the entry of summary judgment in his favor and against  
 
Plaintiff Cynthia Donald (“Ms. Donald”) on all Counts asserted against him by Ms. Donald in  
 
her Amended Complaint, and submits this Memorandum of Law in support: 
 
I. FACTS 
 
      Mr. Johnson incorporates by reference, as though fully set forth herein, the facts set forth  
 
in his accompanying Rule 56.1 Statement of Material Facts (hereinafter “Facts”). Mr. Johnson  
 
also cites to certain facts set forth therein where applicable to his arguments below.   
 
II. ARGUMENT 
  
This Court Should Grant Summary Judgment In Favor Of Mr. Johnson And Against 
Ms. Donald On All Counts Of Her Complaint Based Upon Ms. Donald’s Attempted 
Fraud Upon The Court   
 
       In January 2019, Ms. Donald spoke to her friend and fellow CPD Officer Claudio  
 
Salgado Yanez (“Salgado”). See Facts at para. 56. Ms. Donald told Salgdo that Mr. Johnson was  
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 1 of 13 PageID #:1817
a very good person; that she enjoyed working for Mr. Johnson; that she was very happy working  
 
for Mr. Johnson; that she thought working for Mr. Johnson was a good opportunity; and that she  
 
had a lot of respect for Mr. Johnson. Id. at Facts at para. 56. 
 
In February or March 2019, Ms. Donald brought Mr. Johnson out to dinner as her date to  
 
meet with Salgado and some of his friends. Id. at Facts at 57. Later in 2019, Ms. Donald and Mr.  
 
Johnson joined Salgado at another dinner outing. Id. at Facts at 58.  
 
Subsequently, in the March/April 2020 time period, Ms. Donald contacted Salgado. Id. at  
 
Facts at para. 59. During these communications, Ms. Donald attempted to “bribe” Salgado. Id. at  
 
Facts at para. 59.  
 
Ms. Donald told Salgado that, if he helped him in her lawsuit and say things about Mr.  
 
Johnson, she would “take care” of him by giving him money from the proceeds to pay for the  
 
healthcare of his (Salgado’s) father, and that she would see to it that he got a promotion. Id. at  
 
Facts at para. 60.  
 
Ms. Donald further explained that the City always settles its lawsuits, and that as part the  
 
settlement of her claims, she would get out a promotion out of it – and could, in turn, get Salgado  
 
promoted. Id. at Facts at para. 61.  
 
Salgado turned down Ms. Donald’s attempt to bribe him to take against with her against  
 
Mr. Johnson. Id. at Facts at para. 62. Thereafter, Ms. Donald continued to contact Salgado in  
 
further attempts to bribe him by contacting him from a variety of different phone numbers. Id. at  
 
Facts at Facts at para. 63.  
 
 Ms. Donald’s bribery scheme calls into question not only all of her claims, but all of the  
 
witness testimony that she intends to offer at trial – as well as, of course, all of her own  
 
testimony. In short, Ms. Donald’s conduct amounts to a “fraud upon the court.” A “fraud upon  
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 2 of 13 PageID #:1818
the court” is an “unconscionable plan or scheme which is designed to improperly influence the  
 
court in its decision. See, e.g., National Oilwell Varco v. Auto-Dril, Inc., No. 21-40648, 2023  
 
WL 3411189 (5th Cir. 2023), at *8 (citations omitted); see also Alabi v. Homecomings Financial,  
 
LLC, No. 09-cv-4757, 2011 WL 4398140 at *4-5 (N.D. Ill., Sept. 11, 2011) (explaining fraud on  
 
the court). 
 
 Therefore, on that basis alone, this Court should grant judgment in favor of Mr. Johnson  
 
and against Mr. Donald on all of her claims asserted against him in her Amended Complaint, and  
 
award Mr. Johnson his attorneys’ fees and costs. Such a draconian remedy is clearly merited in  
 
this case because Ms. Donald’s misconduct, here her attempted bribery, calls into question the  
 
veracity of her testimony and claims, and any witness that she calls to testify at trial. 
 
 Alternatively, this Court should hold an evidentiary hearing to make findings as to  
 
whether Ms. Donald engaged in attempted bribery and thus a fraud upon this Court and the  
 
judicial process. 
 
This Court Should Enter Summary Judgment In Favor Of Mr. Johnson And 
Against Ms. Donald On Counts II, IV, and VI Because The Record Evidence 
Establishes, As A Matter Of Law, That Ms. Donald And Mr. Johnson Were 
Engaged In A Consensual Physical Relationship, That Mr. Johnson Therefore Did 
Not Engage In Any Unwanted Conduct, And That In Any Event Ms. Donald By Her 
Words, Actions, And Inaction Reasonably Caused Mr. Johnson To Believe That 
The Parties Were Involved In A Consensual Relationship And That His Conduct 
Was Not Unwanted 
 
 Counts II, IV, and VI are premised upon the fiction that Mr. Johnson directed unwanted  
 
conduct of a sexual nature to Ms. Donald, and that the parties were somehow engaged in a non- 
 
consensual intimate and sexual relationship. The record evidence clearly establishes that no  
 
genuine issue of material remains as to whether Ms. Donald and Mr. Johnson were actually  
 
engaged in a long-standing consensual relationship. Indeed, as set forth below, the record  
 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 3 of 13 PageID #:1819
evidence demonstrates that by her words, actions, inaction, and after the fact representations, Ms.  
 
Donald herself believed and acted as if she was at all times engaged in a consensual relationship  
 
with Mr. Johnson. Moreover, even if she was at all times simply “faking” that she was in fact  
 
engaged in a consensual relationship with Mr. Johnson, and simply faking that she “loved” Mr. 
 
Johnson, her words, actions, and inaction clearly resulted in Mr. Johnson, like any objective or  
 
reasonable person under the circumstances, to believe and rely upon the fact that he and Ms.  
 
Donald were at all times engaged in a consensual relationship and that his conduct towards Ms.  
 
Donald was not “unwanted.”  
 
Here, even before she worked for Mr. Johnson, Ms. Donald already knew Mr. Johnson,  
 
and had previously hung out with him, socialized with him, and drank with him. See Facts at  
 
para. 1. Thus, even before working for Mr. Johnson, Ms. Donald thought he was a good guy and  
 
had fun hanging out with him. Id.  
 
While working for Mr. Johnson, and over a long period of time (years) while working  
 
with Mr. Johnson, Ms. Donald, repeatedly told Mr. Johnson that she loved him. Id. at Facts at  
 
para. 2.  
 
During that time period, Ms. Donald had an intimate relationship with Mr. Johnson which  
 
included her telling him a lot about her own personal life. Id. at Facts at para. 3.  
 
Ms. Donald introduced Mr. Johnson to her mother. Id. at Facts at para. 5.  
 
As part of their relationship, Ms. Donald invited Mr. Johnson over to her mother’s house  
 
in 2018 or 2019. Id. at Facts at para. 6.  On that occasion, Ms. Donald and Mr. Johnson hung out  
 
with Ms. Donald’s mom and sisters for about two hours. Id.  
 
As part of their relationship, Ms. Donald also introduced Mr. Johnson to her sisters. Id. at  
 
Facts at para. 7.  
 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 4 of 13 PageID #:1820
Ms. Donald told Mr. Johnson that she loved him on numerous occasions. Id. at Facts at  
 
para. 8.   
 
Ms. Donald told people that Mr. Johnson was her “boyfriend.” Id. at Facts at para. 9. 
 
Ms. Donald initiated and threw a birthday party for Mr. Johnson. Id. at Facts at para, 10.  
 
Ms. Donald threw that party because she thought Mr. Johnson was such a good guy and good  
 
friend, and special boss. Id.   
 
           Ms. Donald invited her mother to that birthday party; she attended; and thereafter Ms.  
 
Donald and her mother exchanged pictures from the party with each other. Id. at Facts at para.  
 
11. 
 
           Ms. Donald introduced Mr. Johnson to her friends. Id. at Facts at para. 12. 
 
     Ms. Donald introduced Mr. Johnson to her hairdresser. Id. at Facts at para. 13. 
 
           Ms. Donald texted Mr. Johnson outside of work hours on a regular basis. Id. at Facts at  
 
para. 14. 
 
           In her non-work communications with Mr. Johnson, she referred to and called him  
 
“BAE,” short for “Babe.” Id. at Facts at para. 15. 
 
           Ms. Donald sent Mr. Johnson pictures of her underwear on dozens of occasions. Id. at  
 
Facts at para. 16.  
 
           Ms. Donald sent Mr. Johnson pictures of her breast and other body parts on numerous  
 
occasions. Id. at Facts at para. 17.  
 
           Ms. Donald never told Mr. Johnson that she did not want to send him the types of  
 
pictures of her referenced above. Id. at Facts at para. 18. 
 
          In response to one of Mr. Johnson’s texts to her about what was for lunch, Ms. Donald  
 
responded, “Me.” Id. at Facts at para. 19. 
 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 5 of 13 PageID #:1821
On Christmas day, Ms. Donald texted Mr. Johnson to tell him he was “handsome.”  
 
Id. at Facts at para. 20. 
 
          On another occasions, Ms. Donald texted Mr. Johnson to tell him, “l love you great  
 
man.” Id. at Facts at para. 21. 
 
          On another occasion. Ms. Donald texted Mr. Johnson to tell him that she was taking a  
 
bath and told him to come over to her house. Id. at para. 22. 
 
          On Father’s Day, Ms. Donald emailed Mr. Johnson, and stated:  
 
    Happy Father's Day to a very special man Please enjoy and reflect on this day your            
    accomplishments as one of the greatest black dads the world. I love you.  
 
Id. at Facts at para. 23.  
 
          On other occasions, Ms. Donald sent Mr. Johnson a series of texts in which she called  
 
him “cutie” in one and “handsome in another.”  Id. at Facts at para. 24. 
 
          On other occasions, Ms. Donald and Mr. Johnson exchanged texts in which they told  
 
each other that they love one another. Id. at Facts at para. 25, 
 
           On another occasion, Ms. Donald texted Mr. Johnson pictures of her son. Id. at Facts at  
 
para. 26.  
 
          Ms. Donald admitted that, by way of her communications with Mr. Johnson, Ms. Donald 
 
wanted him to believe that they were having an affair. Id. at Facts at para. 28. 
 
          Thus, Ms. Donald agreed and admitted that someone looking at or receiving those  
 
communications would believe that a “genuine relationship” between her and Mr. Johnson was  
 
taking place. Id. at Facts at para. 29. 
 
         Ms. Donald and Mr. Johnson regularly and consensually hung out in hotel rooms in the  
 
City and ate, drank, and talked. Id. at Facts at para. 30.  
 
         Ms. Donald regularly went out socializing with her friends and Mr. Johnson, including to  
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 6 of 13 PageID #:1822
bars and restaurants, and with Mr. Johnson’s friends. Id. at Facts at para. 31.  
 
Ms. Donald admitted that she engaged in all of the above activities, and that no one  
 
forced or pressured to engage in them. Id. at Facts at para. 32. 
 
Ms. Donald never told Mr. Johnson that she did not want to have sexual relations  
 
with him, including while they were having sexual relations. Id. at Facts at para. 33. 
 
However, Ms. Donald claimed that she was “faking” having fun with Mr. Johnson. Id. at  
 
Facts at para. 34. 
 
Ms. Donald admitted that she was attempting to make Mr. Johnson believe that she  
 
cared for him. Id. at Facts at para. 35.  
 
Ms. Donald considered herself friends and friendly with Mr. Johnson. Id. at Facts at para.  
 
36. 
 
As part of their relationship, Ms. Donald went on trips to other cities with Mr. Johnson.  
 
including London, Springfield, New York, and New Orleans. Id. at Facts at para. 37.  
 
On the Springfield trips, Ms. Donald slept with Mr. Johnson, and did not tell him no. 
 
Id. at Facts at para. 38. 
 
On the New Orleans trip, Ms. Donald and her sister hung out with Mr. Johnson and went  
 
drinking. Id. at Facts at para. 39. Ms. Donald slept with Mr. Johnson on both of the nights in  
 
New Orleans. Id.  
 
On yet another occasions, Ms. Donald and Mr. Johnson drove to another city to see a  
 
Anita Baker concert together, but Ms. Donald claimed she could not even remember the name of  
 
that city. Id. at Facts at para. 40. On that trip, Ms. Donald again slept with Mr. Johnson. Id.  
 
Ms. Donald claimed that she could not recall if she went on yet another trip with Mr.  
 
Johnson, this time to San Diego. Id. at Facts at para. 41. 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 7 of 13 PageID #:1823
Ms. Donald went to Blue Man Group with Mr. Johnson. Id. at Facts at para. 42. 
 
     Ms. Donald never complained to Human Resources about Mr. Johnson, or reported him.  
 
Id. at Facts at para. 43. Likewise, Ms. Donald never complained to Internal Affairs about Mr.  
 
Johnson or reported him. Id.  
 
After Ms. Donald’s relationship with Mr. Johnson became known publicly, and  
 
unbeknownst to Mr. Johnson, Ms. Donald was planning to file a lawsuit against the City and  
 
him, and Ms. Donald had Mr. Johnson drive her to her attorneys’ offices downtown – but did not  
 
tell him she was going to meet with her lawyers, nor that part of her plan was to sue Mr.  
 
Johnson. Id. at Facts at para. 45. 
 
After Ms. Donald’s relationship with Mr. Johnson became known publicly, Ms. Donald  
 
also met with Mr. Johnson on other occasions. Id. at Facts at para. 46. 
  
This included inviting and having Mr. Johnson over to, and in her own house. Id. at Facts  
 
at para. 47. Ms.  Donald did not tell her husband that she was  having Mr. Johnson over and into 
 
their house. Id.  
 
This also included a meeting with him at a restaurant downtown. Id. at Facts at para. 48. 
 
This also included another occasion in February 2020 where she sat and had drinks with  
 
Mr. Johnson his friends at a bar at 100th and Torrance, after driving over to that bar where they  
 
were hanging out. Id. at Facts at para. 49. She sat next to Mr. Johnson on that occasion. Id.  
 
Ms. Donald also met with the Inspector General (“IG”) about Mr. Johnson, and testified  
 
that she did not lie to them.  Id. at Facts at para. 50. She admitted that she was asked about Mr.  
 
Johnson and the nature of their relationship, and she did not claim to the IG that Mr. Johnson had  
 
ever sexually harassed her or done anything wrong, or that their relationship was in any way  
 
non-consensual. Id. at Facts at para. 51. 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 8 of 13 PageID #:1824
Ms. Donald met with the IG for a second time; was again questioned about the nature of  
 
her relationship with Mr. Johnson; claims that she was again entirely truthful; and again did not  
 
claim that Mr. Johnson has ever sexually harassed her and done anything wrong, or that their  
 
relationship was in any way non-consensual. Id. at Facts at para. 52. 
 
Ms. Donald also met with outside counsel Tom Needham, who also asked her questions  
 
about Mr. Johnson and her relationship with him; she answered those questions truthfully; and  
 
she did not claim that her relationship with Mr. Johnson was non-consensual or that Mr. Johnson  
 
had ever sexually harassed her and done anything wrong. Id. at Facts at para. 53. 
 
Ms. Donald knew that the City of Chicago’s rules and the Chicago Police Departments  
 
rules prohibited sexual harassment and sexual assault; that she had a duty to report any such  
 
conduct if it had ever actually occurred; but she never reported any such conduct by Mr.  
 
Johnson. Id. at Facts at para. 54. 
 
 In sum, based upon all of the foregoing undisputed facts, there is no question that,  
 
including as admitted to by Ms. Donald in the numerous ways referenced above, as a matter of  
 
law, Ms. Donald and Mr. Johnson were engaged in a consensual relationship. Thus, Ms.  
 
Donald’s claims in each of those Counts fails as a matter of law. Accordingly, Ms. Donald’s  
 
claims against Mr. Johnson, as set forth in Counts II, IV, and VI of her Amended Compliant –  
 
which each require the conduct of Mr. Johnson to be intentionally unwanted and non-consensual  
 
- fail because no genuine issues of material fact remain. Therefore, this Court should enter  
 
summary judgment in favor of Mr. Johnson and against Ms. Donald on each of  
 
those Counts, and award him his costs. 
 
In any event, even if Ms. Donald was only attempting to dupe Mr. Johnson into believing  
 
that they were engaged in a consensual intimate and sexual relationship, her claims still fail. See,  
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 9 of 13 PageID #:1825
e.g., Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57, 68 (1986); Mosher v. Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.,  
 
240 F.3d 662 (7th Cir. 2001); Sanders v. Chicago Transit Authority, 2022 WL 971879 at *5  
 
(N.D. Ill. March 31, 2022). On that alternative basis, this Court should enter summary judgment  
 
in favor of Mr. Johnson and against Ms. Donald on each of those Counts, and award him his  
 
costs. 
 
 Finally, as further support for his argu ments in this section, Mr. Johnson hereby 
 
adopts, relies upon, and incorporates by reference as though fully set forth herein, the Defendant 
 
City of Chicago’s arguments and case law, cited at pages 9 though of 11 of its brief in support of  
 
its Motion for Summary Judgment. See Dkt. at No. 217 (“Donald cannot demonstrate Johnson’s  
 
conduct was unwelcome or objectively hostile (Counts I and III)”). 
 
This Court Should Enter Summary Judgment In Favor Of Mr. Johnson And 
Against Ms. Donald On Count V, Alleged Spoilation Of Evidence, Because Ms. 
Donald’s Own Testimony Establishes That This Claim Is Entirely Baseless, And She 
Has Failed To Come Forward With Any Admissible Record Evidence In Support 
Of This Claim To Create A Genuine Issue Of Material Facts  
 
 Count V is premised u pon Ms. Donald’s baseless assertion that Mr. Johnson purportedly  
 
took her “SIM” card from her phone and therefore somehow deleted her texts. But Ms. Donald’s  
 
own sworn deposition testimony likewise dooms this claim. Here, Ms. Donald testified that her  
 
husband took her “SIM card” out of her work phone. Id. at Facts at para. 54. Yet, Ms. Donald  
 
still filed the present lawsuit, without any factual basis, claiming that Mr. Johnson took it. Id.  
 
Accordingly, this Court should: 1) enter summary judgment in favor of Mr. Johnson and against  
 
Ms. Donald on Count V, and 2) grant Mr. Johnson his reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs based  
 
upon Ms. Donald’s assertion of a claim that she knew, at the time of filing, was legally and f 
 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 10 of 13 PageID #:1826
factually baseless.1 
 
 Moreover, it was, and remains, Ms. Donald’s burden to come forward with sufficient  
 
evidence in support of this and her other claims. Indeed, a nonmoving party must do more than 
 
simply show some metaphysical doubt as to material facts. Burton v. Kohn Law Firm, S.C., 934  
 
F.3d 572, 579 (7th Cir. 2019). Inferences supported only by speculation or conjecture are  
 
insufficient. Johnson, 936 F.3d at 706. Likewise, “[t]he mere existence of a scintilla of evidence  
 
in support of the plaintiff’s position will be insufficient to show a genuine issue of material fact.”  
 
Burton, supra, 934 F.3d at 579. Summary judgment is warranted “against a party who fails to  
 
make a showing sufficient to establish the existence of an element essential to a party’s case, and  
 
on which that party will bear the burden of proof at trial.” Hakim v. Accenture United States  
 
Pension Plan, 718 F.3d 675, 681 (7th Cir. 2013) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).  
 
The court construes the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving party. Foley v.  
 
City of Lafayette, F.3d 925, 928 (7th Cir. 2004). For those additional reason, Ms. Donald’s claim  
 
in Count V fails. 
 
              WHEREFORE, Defendant, Eddie Johnson, by and through his undersigned counsel,  
 
respectfully requests that this Court enter summary judgment in his favor and against Plaintiff  
 
Cynthia Donald on all Counts asserted against him in her Amended Complaint, and for such  
 
other and further relief as is appropriate under the circumstances. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Mr. Johnson also joins, and incorporates by reference as though fully set forth herein, any and 
all arguments made by the Defendant City of Chicago in its Motion for Summary Judgment and 
supporting Memorandum, to the extent that they also apply to Mr. Johnson. 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 11 of 13 PageID #:1827
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED,  
      By:  s/Michael I. Leonard   
                      Counsel for Mr. Johnson 
 
 
 
 
LEONARD TRIAL LAWYERS 
Michael I. Leonard  
Matthew Chivari 
120 North LaSalle, 20th Floor  
Chicago, Illinois 60602  
(312)380-6659 (direct)  
(312)264-0671 (fax) 
mleonard@leonardtriallawyers.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 12 of 13 PageID #:1828
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I, Michael Leonard, an attorney, certify that I caused a copy of foregoing to be served 
upon all parties of record by email on May 29, 2023.  
 
 
  By:  s/ Michael I. Leonard   
          Counsel for Mr. Johnson   
Case: 1:20-cv-06815 Document #: 219 Filed: 05/29/23 Page 13 of 13 PageID #:1829
